# Introduction
The new age of technology allows for people worldwide to connect and share their favorite recipes. What's interesting about this is the fact that something as personal as favorite recipes now becomes something anyone can share their opinion on and try for themselves. In order to make information easier to transmit, many sites have begun using a structured system to share recipes, including trackers for how many ingredients are used, how long the recipe takes, and tags to find similar recipes. Additionally, users can leave comments and ratings on any recipe available to them. This data analysis project aims to utilize the structure of these sites to determine the relationship between user-given ratings and number of steps in a recipe.

The data utilized is sourced from food.com and contains recipes from 2008 onward. Initially, two datasets were used; the first containing recipe information (cook time, ingredients, tags, recipe id, publishing date, nutritional info) and the second containing user interaction information (user id, review text, and review score out of 5). The recipe dataset has 83782 unique rows, each representing a recipe. The user interaction dataset has 731927 unique rows, each representing an interaction a user had with a recipe's review section.

After data cleaning and missingness determination, this data analysis aims to prove that the more steps a recipe has, the lower the rating will be. This hypothesis will be used because it personally relates to how I utilize recipes. As a busy college student, I seek comfort food that takes minimal effort to prepare but still satisfies.
# Data Cleaning
After initializing the necessary files and reading them in as DataFrames, the first step was to merge the files together and clean up any detrimental missing values, primarily in the 'rating' column.
'<table border="1" class="dataframe">\n  <thead>\n    <tr style="text-align: right;">\n      <th></th>\n      <th>name</th>\n      <th>id</th>\n      <th>minutes</th>\n      <th>contributor_id</th>\n      <th>submitted</th>\n      <th>tags</th>\n      <th>nutrition</th>\n      <th>n_steps</th>\n      <th>steps</th>\n      <th>description</th>\n      <th>ingredients</th>\n      <th>n_ingredients</th>\n      <th>user_id</th>\n      <th>recipe_id</th>\n      <th>date</th>\n      <th>rating</th>\n      <th>review</th>\n    </tr>\n  </thead>\n  <tbody>\n    <tr>\n      <th>0</th>\n      <td>1 brownies in the world    best ever</td>\n      <td>333281</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>985201</td>\n      <td>2008-10-27</td>\n      <td>[\'60-minutes-or-less\', \'time-to-make\', \'course\', \'main-ingredient\', \'preparation\', \'for-large-groups\', \'desserts\', \'lunch\', \'snacks\', \'cookies-and-brownies\', \'chocolate\', \'bar-cookies\', \'brownies\', \'number-of-servings\']</td>\n      <td>[138.4, 10.0, 50.0, 3.0, 3.0, 19.0, 6.0]</td>\n      <td>10</td>\n      <td>[\'heat the oven to 350f and arrange the rack in the middle\', \'line an 8-by-8-inch glass baking dish with aluminum foil\', \'combine chocolate and butter in a medium saucepan and cook over medium-low heat , stirring frequently , until evenly melted\', \'remove from heat and let cool to room temperature\', \'combine eggs , sugar , cocoa powder , vanilla extract , espresso , and salt in a large bowl and briefly stir until just evenly incorporated\', \'add cooled chocolate and mix until uniform in color\', \'add flour and stir until just incorporated\', \'transfer batter to the prepared baking dish\', \'bake until a tester inserted in the center of the brownies comes out clean , about 25 to 30 minutes\', \'remove from the oven and cool completely before cutting\']</td>\n      <td>these are the most; chocolatey, moist, rich, dense, fudgy, delicious brownies that you\'ll ever make.....sereiously! there\'s no doubt that these will be your fav brownies ever for you can add things to them or make them plain.....either way they\'re pure heaven!</td>\n      <td>[\'bittersweet chocolate\', \'unsalted butter\', \'eggs\', \'granulated sugar\', \'unsweetened cocoa powder\', \'vanilla extract\', \'brewed espresso\', \'kosher salt\', \'all-purpose flour\']</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>386585.0</td>\n      <td>333281.0</td>\n      <td>2008-11-19</td>\n      <td>4.0</td>\n      <td>These were pretty good, but took forever to bake.  I would send it ended up being almost an hour!  Even then, the brownies stuck to the foil, and were on the overly moist side and not easy to cut.  They did taste quite rich, though!  Made for My 3 Chefs.</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>1</th>\n      <td>1 in canada chocolate chip cookies</td>\n      <td>453467</td>\n      <td>45</td>\n      <td>1848091</td>\n      <td>2011-04-11</td>\n      <td>[\'60-minutes-or-less\', \'time-to-make\', \'cuisine\', \'preparation\', \'north-american\', \'for-large-groups\', \'canadian\', \'british-columbian\', \'number-of-servings\']</td>\n      <td>[595.1, 46.0, 211.0, 22.0, 13.0, 51.0, 26.0]</td>\n      <td>12</td>\n      <td>[\'pre-heat oven the 350 degrees f\', \'in a mixing bowl , sift together the flours and baking powder\', \'set aside\', \'in another mixing bowl , blend together the sugars , margarine , and salt until light and fluffy\', \'add the eggs , water , and vanilla to the margarine / sugar mixture and mix together until well combined\', \'add in the flour mixture to the wet ingredients and blend until combined\', \'scrape down the sides of the bowl and add the chocolate chips\', \'mix until combined\', \'scrape down the sides to the bowl again\', \'using an ice cream scoop , scoop evenly rounded balls of dough and place of cookie sheet about 1 - 2 inches apart to allow for spreading during baking\', \'bake for 10 - 15 minutes or until golden brown on the outside and soft &amp; chewy in the center\', \'serve hot and enjoy !\']</td>\n      <td>this is the recipe that we use at my school cafeteria for chocolate chip cookies. they must be the best chocolate chip cookies i have ever had! if you don\'t have margarine or don\'t like it, then just use butter (softened) instead.</td>\n      <td>[\'white sugar\', \'brown sugar\', \'salt\', \'margarine\', \'eggs\', \'vanilla\', \'water\', \'all-purpose flour\', \'whole wheat flour\', \'baking soda\', \'chocolate chips\']</td>\n      <td>11</td>\n      <td>424680.0</td>\n      <td>453467.0</td>\n      <td>2012-01-26</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>Originally I was gonna cut the recipe in half (just the 2 of us here), but then we had a park-wide yard sale, &amp; I made the whole batch &amp; used them as enticements for potential buyers ~ what the hey, a free cookie as delicious as these are, definitely works its magic! Will be making these again, for sure! Thanks for posting the recipe!</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>2</th>\n      <td>412 broccoli casserole</td>\n      <td>306168</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>50969</td>\n      <td>2008-05-30</td>\n      <td>[\'60-minutes-or-less\', \'time-to-make\', \'course\', \'main-ingredient\', \'preparation\', \'side-dishes\', \'vegetables\', \'easy\', \'beginner-cook\', \'broccoli\']</td>\n      <td>[194.8, 20.0, 6.0, 32.0, 22.0, 36.0, 3.0]</td>\n      <td>6</td>\n      <td>[\'preheat oven to 350 degrees\', \'spray a 2 quart baking dish with cooking spray , set aside\', \'in a large bowl mix together broccoli , soup , one cup of cheese , garlic powder , pepper , salt , milk , 1 cup of french onions , and soy sauce\', \'pour into baking dish , sprinkle remaining cheese over top\', \'bake for 25 minutes or until cheese is lightly browned\', \'sprinkle with rest of french fried onions and bake until onions are browned and cheese is bubbly , about 10 more minutes\']</td>\n      <td>since there are already 411 recipes for broccoli casserole posted to "zaar" ,i decided to call this one  #412 broccoli casserole.i don\'t think there are any like this one in the database. i based this one on the famous "green bean casserole" from campbell\'s soup. but i think mine is better since i don\'t like cream of mushroom soup.submitted to "zaar" on may 28th,2008</td>\n      <td>[\'frozen broccoli cuts\', \'cream of chicken soup\', \'sharp cheddar cheese\', \'garlic powder\', \'ground black pepper\', \'salt\', \'milk\', \'soy sauce\', \'french-fried onions\']</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>29782.0</td>\n      <td>306168.0</td>\n      <td>2008-12-31</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>This was one of the best broccoli casseroles that I have ever made.  I made my own chicken soup for this recipe. I was a bit worried about the tsp of soy sauce but it gave the casserole the best flavor. YUM!  \\nThe photos you took (shapeweaver) inspired me to make this recipe and it actually does look just like them when it comes out of the oven.  \\nThanks so much for sharing your recipe shapeweaver. It was wonderful!  Going into my family\'s favorite Zaar cookbook :)</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>3</th>\n      <td>412 broccoli casserole</td>\n      <td>306168</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>50969</td>\n      <td>2008-05-30</td>\n      <td>[\'60-minutes-or-less\', \'time-to-make\', \'course\', \'main-ingredient\', \'preparation\', \'side-dishes\', \'vegetables\', \'easy\', \'beginner-cook\', \'broccoli\']</td>\n      <td>[194.8, 20.0, 6.0, 32.0, 22.0, 36.0, 3.0]</td>\n      <td>6</td>\n      <td>[\'preheat oven to 350 degrees\', \'spray a 2 quart baking dish with cooking spray , set aside\', \'in a large bowl mix together broccoli , soup , one cup of cheese , garlic powder , pepper , salt , milk , 1 cup of french onions , and soy sauce\', \'pour into baking dish , sprinkle remaining cheese over top\', \'bake for 25 minutes or until cheese is lightly browned\', \'sprinkle with rest of french fried onions and bake until onions are browned and cheese is bubbly , about 10 more minutes\']</td>\n      <td>since there are already 411 recipes for broccoli casserole posted to "zaar" ,i decided to call this one  #412 broccoli casserole.i don\'t think there are any like this one in the database. i based this one on the famous "green bean casserole" from campbell\'s soup. but i think mine is better since i don\'t like cream of mushroom soup.submitted to "zaar" on may 28th,2008</td>\n      <td>[\'frozen broccoli cuts\', \'cream of chicken soup\', \'sharp cheddar cheese\', \'garlic powder\', \'ground black pepper\', \'salt\', \'milk\', \'soy sauce\', \'french-fried onions\']</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>1196280.0</td>\n      <td>306168.0</td>\n      <td>2009-04-13</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>I made this for my son\'s first birthday party this weekend. Our guests INHALED it! Everyone kept saying how delicious it was. I was I could have gotten to try it.</td>\n    </tr>\n    <tr>\n      <th>4</th>\n      <td>412 broccoli casserole</td>\n      <td>306168</td>\n      <td>40</td>\n      <td>50969</td>\n      <td>2008-05-30</td>\n      <td>[\'60-minutes-or-less\', \'time-to-make\', \'course\', \'main-ingredient\', \'preparation\', \'side-dishes\', \'vegetables\', \'easy\', \'beginner-cook\', \'broccoli\']</td>\n      <td>[194.8, 20.0, 6.0, 32.0, 22.0, 36.0, 3.0]</td>\n      <td>6</td>\n      <td>[\'preheat oven to 350 degrees\', \'spray a 2 quart baking dish with cooking spray , set aside\', \'in a large bowl mix together broccoli , soup , one cup of cheese , garlic powder , pepper , salt , milk , 1 cup of french onions , and soy sauce\', \'pour into baking dish , sprinkle remaining cheese over top\', \'bake for 25 minutes or until cheese is lightly browned\', \'sprinkle with rest of french fried onions and bake until onions are browned and cheese is bubbly , about 10 more minutes\']</td>\n      <td>since there are already 411 recipes for broccoli casserole posted to "zaar" ,i decided to call this one  #412 broccoli casserole.i don\'t think there are any like this one in the database. i based this one on the famous "green bean casserole" from campbell\'s soup. but i think mine is better since i don\'t like cream of mushroom soup.submitted to "zaar" on may 28th,2008</td>\n      <td>[\'frozen broccoli cuts\', \'cream of chicken soup\', \'sharp cheddar cheese\', \'garlic powder\', \'ground black pepper\', \'salt\', \'milk\', \'soy sauce\', \'french-fried onions\']</td>\n      <td>9</td>\n      <td>768828.0</td>\n      <td>306168.0</td>\n      <td>2013-08-02</td>\n      <td>5.0</td>\n      <td>Loved this.  Be sure to completely thaw the broccoli.  I didn&amp;#039;t and it didn&amp;#039;t get done in time specified.  Just cooked it a little longer though and it was perfect.  Thanks Chef.</td>\n    </tr>\n  </tbody>\n</table>'
